Agriculture is the source of human nourishment on this planet. Weed identification and categorization are important technological and economic issues in the agriculture business. Weed identification used to be done by hiring individuals specifically for that purpose. Weed identification used to be done by scrutinizing each and every spot in the field. Weeds were then physically eradicated. Later, as technology developed, people started using pesticides to eradicate weeds. But in many parts of the world, the herb was still marked with physical force. Later, a few methods for weed detection without human involvement appeared, but due to their low accuracy, they were not adopted by the general public. Image processing was then applied to this. The capacity to detect weeds with high accuracy and speed, especially in complicated or crowded surroundings, is one advantage of employing AI for weed identification. This can assist to minimise the requirement for physical labour in weed management, as well as the usage of pesticides by more accurately focusing weed control operations. Overall, the application of artificial intelligence for weed detection has the potential to enhance the efficiency and efficacy of weed control in agriculture, hence increasing crop yields and lowering the environmental impact of herbicide usage. In the future, weeds in crops will be located using image processing techniques. The survey of weed detection utilising image processing techniques is the main topic of this research.

Dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/ravirajsinh45/crop-and-weed-detection-data-with-bounding-boxes

Outcome
